Overview

This project demonstrates how to analyze web server logs to identify and understand common web attack techniques. The investigation focuses on three main attack types: directory fuzzing (reconnaissance), brute-force authentication attempts, and SQL injection (SQLi).

The goal is to simulate a real-world Security Operations Center (SOC) log investigation by interpreting attack behavior from web server activity.

Objectives
Identify malicious patterns in web server logs
Detect reconnaissance activity (directory fuzzing)
Analyze brute-force login attempts
Recognize SQL injection payloads
Understand attacker progression through a web application
Attack Analysis
1. Directory Fuzzing (Reconnaissance Phase)

The attacker performed directory fuzzing using an automated tool identified in the logs as:

User-Agent: FFUF v2.1.0

This indicates the use of a web content discovery tool to scan the application for hidden directories, files, and endpoints.

Behavior observed:

Rapid and automated requests to multiple endpoints
Attempted access to non-public directories
Presence of systematic scanning patterns

Purpose:
To discover hidden or unprotected resources such as admin panels, backup files, or login pages.

2. Brute Force Attack (Authentication Phase)

The attacker targeted the authentication endpoint:

Target Page: /login.php

The logs show repeated POST requests to the login page in quick succession, indicating an automated brute-force attack.

Behavior observed:

High frequency login attempts
Repeated authentication failures
Sudden successful login indicated by a 302 Found redirect

Purpose:
To gain unauthorized access by guessing valid username and password combinations using automation.

3. SQL Injection Attack (Post-Authentication Exploitation)

After gaining access, the attacker targeted:

Target Page: /changeusername.php

The attacker submitted SQL injection payloads in an attempt to manipulate backend database queries.

Payload used:

' OR '1'='1

Behavior observed:

Injection of logical conditions into input fields
Attempt to bypass validation or authentication logic
Exploitation of insecure query construction

Purpose:
To manipulate SQL queries and potentially gain unauthorized access to or modify database records.

 Key Indicators of Malicious Activity
Use of automated scanning tool (FFUF)
High-volume login attempts in short time window
Presence of SQL injection payloads in request logs
Suspicious request patterns targeting multiple endpoints
Authentication bypass indicators (HTTP 302 redirect after failures)


Skills Demonstrated
Web server log analysis
Attack pattern recognition
Reconnaissance detection
Brute-force detection analysis
SQL injection identification
SOC-style incident reconstruction

Tools & Concepts Used
Web server access log analysis
CyberChef (for payload decoding)
Basic SQL injection understanding
Web application security concepts

SOC investigation methodology
Summary

This investigation demonstrates how attackers typically progress through a web application in stages:

Reconnaissance (directory fuzzing)
Credential attack (brute force login attempts)
Exploitation (SQL injection after access is gained)

By analyzing logs, it is possible to reconstruct the full attack chain and understand attacker behavior even without seeing the full request payloads.
